[Music]
as C.S Lewis said
hardships often prepare Ordinary People
for an extraordinary destiny
people look at their past to decide who
they are people look at their past to
decide who they can be but the problem
is oftentimes people mistake
difficulties
suffering pain for being bad being less
than being broken and it erodes their
sense of self-esteem it erodes their
sense of self-worth
but nothing could be more opposite from
the truth because in reality no matter
what you've gone through no matter how
hard it was all of it was shaping you
into the person that you can become the
hardships the difficulties the pain the
suffering all of that makes you tougher
it is literally in the difficulties that
you begin to find just how much you're
capable of it's in the suffering that
you find out how resilient you are it's
in the pain that you can rise up and get
tough
and all of that is going to serve you as
you move forward but you have to know
how to frame it you have to know how to
think about it you have to know that
whatever you've been through
that all of it is an opportunity to
learn all of it is an opportunity to
grow all of it is an opportunity to get
better but you have to use it to shape
yourself you have to lean into it you
have to know that the pain and the
suffering all of it is serving you but
if you're telling yourself a story that
diminishes you if you're telling
yourself a story that bad things have
happened to me or I've done bad things
and that makes me
a bad person
then none of it is going to help you and
you're always going to move backwards
and it's going to be this stress and
this pressure that's pushing you
backwards instead if you could put it
behind you said it pushes you forward it
propels you to be more
then no matter what's happened to you
you can become something truly
extraordinary
and as David Livingstone said I'll go
anywhere
provided it be forward so even when
you're making mistakes even when you're
falling down if in that you can see that
it's an opportunity it's a lesson it's
something that you've learned even when
you're running and you stumble and you
trip and you scrape yourself all across
the pavement
you're still moving forward as long as
you get back up dust yourself off and
keep going it doesn't matter that you
fail it doesn't matter that you
embarrass yourself it doesn't matter
that you made a mistake or that you look
stupid none of that matters the only
thing that matters is how do you think
about it
do you let it be something that moves
you backwards or do you recognize at
least it was momentum at least you were
going at least you tried at least you
were putting your energy into something
at least you were willing to take a risk
and that's where most people fail
they're never willing to put themselves
out there because they don't see the
momentum they don't see the forward
movement they only see the failure
it really is that easy and I know that
you've heard this a thousand times and I
know that people are telling you all the
time the failure is a part of the
learning process
but so is the voice that says you're a
[__] up
so is the voice that tells you that
you're unworthy
[Music]
but it's up to you to decide to ignore
that voice it's up to you to prove that
voice wrong it's up to you to love
yourself
and yes I know that's easier said than
done
and yes I know each and every one of us
has to do things to be worthy of loving
ourselves we have to take that leap of
faith we have to be willing to look at
our inadequacies we have to be willing
to get up and do ourselves a service we
have to be willing to serve ourselves
and you do owe yourself that and you do
have to take action and you do have to
be proactive but if you do that you
don't need extraordinary accomplishments
you just need to know
that you're trying
you need to know that when you fall
you're going to get back up you need to
know that you'll keep pushing forward
you need to know that you won't give up
even if you've given up in the past and
once you know that about yourself once
you know that every day is a day an
opportunity to reinvent yourself that's
all you need to believe in that's all
you need to build that self-worth is to
tell yourself you're going to do
something better today than you did
yesterday that's it it doesn't need to
be grand it doesn't need to be
extraordinary
simply needs to be a commitment to
yourself
if you commit to yourself if you commit
to love yourself
despite everything that's happened to
you despite everything you've done
your life can be beautiful
but it starts with a decision
to move forward
[Music]
to me the reason that people say that
knowledge is power is for one simple
reason
as you accumulate it it gives you the
ability to do more you literally become
capable of more you're able to bring
knowledge into your life to literally
transform what you're able to manifest
in the world and at the end of the day
the very definition of power for me is
the ability to close your eyes and
imagine a world and then open them
and make that world come true
but the thing that holds people back is
their own ego
and as Epictetus said one cannot learn
what they think they already know
and that's the danger that's how people
get themselves into trouble it feels so
good to know something it feels like as
you're collecting this information and
becoming more powerful you just want to
focus on that you want to sink into that
feeling you want to see yourself in the
mirror as somebody capable of somebody
who's capable of more today than they
were yesterday and in that truth
because you are but in that truth is a
trap and the trap is to begin to feel
that you know something to think of
yourself as a master that's why as
Socrates said the only true wisdom
is in knowing
you know nothing
because that's how you're going to get
really powerful that's how you're going
to open yourself up to that knowledge to
bring it into your world and even as you
grow more powerful
even as you grow more capable
you're always looking for the ways that
you're wrong you're always looking for
that next piece of information you are
always focused on how you can get better
and you really open yourself with the
humility that most people cannot bring
into their world they cannot accept any
vision of themselves as anything other
than a master
but the master is the one who's trapped
the master is the one who calcifies the
master is the one so brittle they break
student the student is always willing to
learn the student is looking for that
opportunity the student is trying to be
around people that know more than they
know so that they can learn so that they
can become more powerful so that they
can close their eyes
imagine a world
and then open their eyes and make that
world come true and at the end of the
day that should be the sole aim of your
life is to have something that you want
to bring to this world that you are
going to be relentless about acquiring
the skills that are going to allow you
to do that and the only way that you're
going to be able to get there is to drop
your ego
and recognize
there's power in knowing nothing
when your Pursuit is to learn everything
I'm convinced that while virtually
everyone you're ever going to meet they
will tell you that they want to do
something great with their life they'll
tell you that they've got Big Dreams
they've got plans and they're going to
make it happen
but they can't take criticism
they're not willing to look at what
they're doing wrong they're not willing
to admit that everything is their fault
but it's just a frame of reference and
if they would change that frame of
reference it would change everything and
as Tim Grover said the only difference
between feedback and criticism is how
you hear it
understanding the brain understanding
how we process data understanding the
way that ideas get into your mind and
cause a chain reaction of emotions
if you can't figure that out and rise
above it and not become a victim of your
emotions not become a victim to people
saying something that knock you off your
confidence that make you feel insecure
that actually [__] your ability to
perform because of how you have decided
to hear something
and that moment of Awakening that
breakthrough that is the realization
that you decide what to focus on you
decide what to hear and what to take
away from something somebody can assail
you they can attack you they can
victimize you
but it's a choice as to whether or not
you play the victim
as Winston Churchill said criticism may
not be agreeable but it's necessary it
fulfills the same function as pain in
the human body it calls attention to an
unhealthy state of things in the pursuit
of greatness people are just trying to
avoid pain
if you really want to do something if
you really want to become somebody
then you've got to run headlong into
pain you've got to be looking for those
things that make you suffer you've got
to seek out
the pain you've got to seek out the
things that make you uncomfortable
you've got to want to hit that
difficulty because it is in those
moments it is in that bit of suffering
it is in seeing what you are not good at
that is going to allow you to become
great and if you have to let it fill you
with rage to really stand
in anguish
in order to force yourself to move then
stand in it
do whatever you need to do in order to
reach your goals and if that's the
motivation that you need then embrace it
and Chase it
as Tony Robbins said the purpose of pain
is to move us into action
it's not to make us suffer
so in that anguish in the excruciating
pain
find no suffering
see the join welcome it like an old
friend and the day that you can welcome
your pain like an old friend because you
know like a friend it is taking you
where you need to go it is spurring you
into action it is pushing you to become
something and the process of rebirth my
friends
hurts
hurts but whether you choose to suffer
or not
is your choice
because remember Tim's words the only
difference between feedback and
criticism is how you hear it the only
difference between pain and suffering
is how you frame it
was your choice it's up to you how
you're going to move forward
but never for one [__] second forget
that it's a choice
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said
education is the most powerful weapon
you can use to change the world
wherever you are right now listening to
this I want you to burn that into your
mind the most powerful weapon that
you're going to have at your disposal
isn't a gun it isn't a sword it isn't a
bomb the most powerful weapon you will
ever have at your disposal if you really
want to make change
is knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure
but whatever it is to always be learning
to be learning something today knowing
that that's an investment and as Robert
Louis Stevenson said don't judge each
day by the Harvest you reap
but rather by the seeds you plant and
that's what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
but one day
that piece of knowledge is going to come
to your Aid one day that thing that you
learned is going to be something that
you're going to lean on one day that
thing that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world
it's going to help you change the world
but you have to be doing it now you have
to be learning with an obsession you
have to understand that ideas in equal
ideas out and that you have to chase
that knowledge down that it is a
Relentless Pursuit and that like you
would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
learn and learn and learn and you must
hold yourself accountable every day to
planning those scenes to getting better
to learning more to understanding things
more broadly when you do that there will
be nothing that won't be unlocked to you
that's what I want you guys to
understand it doesn't matter where you
are now it doesn't matter where you
started your circumstances the money the
people that you know none of it matters
matters is how much are you willing to
learn how good are you willing to get
how much knowledge are you willing to
soak in because that
will become your weapon that will be how
you rise up and that will be the thing
that will protect you when you need it
most
oh
[Music]
for you
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow
learn today
as Michelangelo said
if people knew how hard I worked to
achieve my mastery
it wouldn't seem so wonderful after all
and that's the thing about getting great
that's the thing about being an artist
of such caliber that you're remembered
for hundreds of years after your death
it is back-breaking work it is a
blinding amount of effort it isn't about
natural talent that myth that some
people are born with something that we
celebrate so much is just that a myth
you're born a lump of Flesh you can't
hold your own head up you may have
predispositions but that is a long way
from actually crafting your ability and
to the point where it looks like magic
and that's the beauty of artistry isn't
it that it's so unbelievable that you're
more willing to believe that it was
god-given that they were Anointed with
it and that they just worked their ass
off
but the truth is every one of the greats
no matter how much natural Talent they
were born with
they're remembered because they worked
they are remembered because they did so
much work because in that work is
hardship in that work is difficulty in
that work is unbearable adversity
but it's in that adversity that the
magic happens and as Victor Hugo said
adversity makes men
Prosperity makes monsters so I know
right now you wish you'd been born with
some talent you wish that all those
dreams that you had they were yours for
the taking that you didn't have to put
Blood Sweat and Tears into it that
somebody would hand you at least
something in the beginning that they
would give you some start some Spark
that's where the monsters created if you
really want to get hard if you really
want to get tough if you want to get
great if you want to be unfucking
touchable because no one can bend or
break your vision of yourself
then you have to suffer
that's the way of the world
and as Florence Nightingale said I
attribute My Success to this
I never gave or took
any excuse
and that's the secret
at the end of the day if you know what
you want it's only a question of whether
you're willing to pay the price to get
there so ask yourself
are you willing to pay the price
[Music]
foreign
as Albert Einstein said the world as we
have created it is a process of our
thinking it cannot be changed without
changing our thinking
the world that we're all living in is
our own construction and I think that's
the thing that people are missing we
have literally created this world and if
this world is delusion if this world is
destruction if this world is filled with
more bad than it is good
then that is the process of our thinking
that is a revelation of how our minds
work it is a revelation of what we have
built internally
so as Leo Tolstoy said everyone thinks
of changing the world but no one thinks
of changing themselves if we're actually
going to make change in the world if
those things that you have in your mind
the vision of what you want to bring to
the world all of the ills that you want
to correct if you're actually going to
correct them you have to look Inward and
begin asking how is this your
responsibility what are the things in
your thinking
that have helped Manifest this world
that have manifested the problems in
your own life and that will my friends I
promise you
manifest the solutions
and as Stephen Hawking pointed out
the greatest enemy of knowledge is not
ignorance
it's the illusion of knowledge we think
we know something that we don't we think
we have the answers we think within us
already right now or the fundamental
building blocks that we're going to need
in order to build something new but the
truth is the only thing that we already
have is the willingness to look the
willingness to change to leverage the
things that we have but we have to build
something entirely new we have to
understand that we don't yet know enough
that we are not adequate that we have to
look at ourselves and be willing to
stare nakedly at our inadequacies and to
adjust them to fix them to not hide
behind ego to not pretend or worse
believe
that we're already who we need to be
because the only promise I can make you
is you're not yet the person you need to
be to execute to create the change that
you want to make
but I can also promise you that you can
become that that if you're willing to do
the hard work of looking internally and
building something new if you're willing
to tear yourself down if you're willing
to Brick by Brick disassemble that thing
that has been built by accident inside
of you and move forward with a new level
of intention and build something an
entirely new structure with your eyes
open with embracing and accepting a lack
of knowledge but never ignorance of not
holding on to Old ideas but to ask of
everything that you choose to believe
does this move me towards my goals or
not and if it does then you do it if it
does you believe it even more but if it
doesn't right then right there you drop
it
then you make room for the new
then you can build what you want to
build then
we'll have the change that we want
as Daniel ping said
people fail to achieve mastery
not because they aren't talented
but because they aren't disciplined
the wonderful news about the human
condition is you can get good at
anything that you set your mind to it's
just not going to be easy and it's not
going to be fast but the willingness to
put in that work is what's going to
separate you from everybody else and I'm
begging you to see yourself right now
today as average
as no better than anyone else
but I beg you with more Force than I
know how to convey with this language to
see yourself as malleable to see
yourself as capable of becoming anything
you want to become to become truly
extraordinary if you can find within
yourself the discipline to stick with it
long enough and as Steve Martin said
perseverance is a great substitute for
talent everybody wants to talk about
who's talented everybody looks at the
person with innate talents as if they
have something magical
but to me
it's a gift it's a handout it's a
freebie it hasn't been earned and no
matter what it is it's only the
beginning even somebody that has talent
even if you get an early win if you let
somebody outwork you if you let somebody
who has more perseverance more grit than
you then they are going to outperform
you on a long enough timeline the only
thing I can guarantee is you will be out
worked by somebody unless you poor your
heart and soul into getting great if you
don't take days off if you put yourself
into it as if your life depended on it
when you act like that then you've got a
chance to be great
and as Robert Horry said pressure can
bust pipes but it can also make diamonds
you've got to want that pressure you've
got to want things to be hard you can't
seek out the easy life you can't just
hope and pray that you can uncover
inside of you some Talent that's laid
dormant that you didn't know about
that's going to let things be easy for
you don't want the easy want the hard
want the pressure want the thing that's
going to turn you into something
because when it's easy
you don't work for it when it's easy you
don't push when it's easy you get
surpassed by the person who has to give
it their all who's prepared to do Blood
Sweat and Tears In order to become that
thing that they want to be so badly
because they are so [__] angry that
they were never given anything and with
that chip on their shoulder they're
determined to become anything that they
set their mind to
so whether you have talent
whether you don't
the only thing that matters is will you
persevere
will you stick with it long enough to
get great
[Music]
as Thomas Edison said
our greatest weakness lies in giving up
the most certain way to succeed is to
always try one more time
I know there are going to be a million
times in your life where you want to
give up where you absolutely ache with
the desire to quit where nothing sits
inside of your gut other than the
certainty that you are going to fail
that you are not good enough to push
forward but that is to fundamentally
misunderstand the nature of a failure
the nature of a failure is not to tell
you who you are
the nature of a failure is to tell you a
way that didn't work it's to inform it's
to educate you it's to test you it's to
be a gut check to find out if you
believe in yourself enough to push
forward even when the world seems to be
telling you not to
and as Brian Tracy said attempt The
Impossible in order to improve your work
think about that for a second attempt
The Impossible just to get better to try
the things that you know are going to
fail things that the world is going to
tell you simply cannot be but even if it
violates the laws of physics if there's
something in that attempt that you're
going to learn you owe it to yourself
you have a [__] moral obligation
to try
because all of the people that will lie
in your wake are the people that didn't
try simply because they didn't believe
that they could do it
you have to be willing to look at the
world you have to be willing to see
things that you yourself think are
impossible and try because in that you
will stretch yourself you have to be
willing to look inward at the state of
your current skill set and say I'm going
to play outside of that I'm not going to
play word safe I'm going to play where
it hurts I'm going to play where I feel
clumsy I'm going to play only in the
areas that make me feel stupid because
in that I know that the way that the
brain responds is through adaptation but
I have to stress myself you can't ever
lose sight of that the only way that the
human animal adapts is through stress
thank you
have to be willing to break things in
order to build something new so if you
want to push the boundaries if you want
to see just how far you can go if you
want to succeed at the highest level if
you want to play on a global scale you
have got to be willing to try the
impossible because right now the things
that you need to do are impossible for
you
but they won't remain that way forever
and as Aristotle said
pleasure in the job
puts perfection in the work this doesn't
have to be a tale of always being
terrified everybody myself included
screaming at you telling you that you
need to go do something great the part
they're leaving out is why the [__]
should you care
you should care because it's the
greatest joy you should only listen to
this if it's leading you down a path
that makes you feel more alive and
that's the point the point is to get in
touch with something that makes you feel
great but not to let yourself starve or
be stopped
by a fear that you'll fail by a fear
that it can't be done
have fun have the guts to enjoy yourself
have the guts to go out and attempt
something audacious and terrifying
knowing that all along if you're doing
it right you're gonna have a good time
so all of this going balls out trying to
prove something to yourself trying to do
something amazing
never lose sight
that it's to build a better life never
lose sight of the fact that you're doing
it to create the person that you want to
be never lose sight of the fact
that it should be fun
as JBS haldane said the world Shall
Perish not for a lack of Wonders
but for a lack of wonder
everything around you is incredible if
you're willing to look at it that way
everything around you can be taken for
granted if that's your perspective
but it really is about the frame that
you choose to put around things I mean
simply being alive is already insane the
odds are so stacked against you not only
just being a human but being a human at
this moment in time this moment in time
where breakthroughs and Technology are
happening at at an unprecedented rate
where breakthroughs in medical science
are happening at an unprecedented rate
where our ability to connect with people
to empathize with people all the way
around the globe all of the changes that
have happened in technology and Telecom
and connectivity Health everything
we're living in the most miraculous time
ever
but you have to look at it that way
and as Joseph Campbell said life is a
wonderful wonderful Opera
except that it hurts
so the question is do you see it as the
beautiful Opera
or do you just pay attention to the pain
and at the end of the day you're going
to get what you focus on they're both
true this is both the most amazing time
that's ever happened ever in recorded
history
and yet real things that are terrifying
are also happening
but where you put your energy where you
put your attention where you put your
focus is going to determine what you see
and that is the most fascinating and the
most important thing you have to
understand about the way that your mind
works you get what you focus on if you
focus on the things that are bad they
will become real they will become
exaggerated they will begin to
monopolize your thoughts you'll see them
everywhere it's called the reticular
activating system your mind is literally
designed
to pay attention to the things that you
notice
once you notice a certain car you see it
everywhere once you notice a certain dog
you see it everywhere once you hear a
certain name for the first time suddenly
realize that that name has been all
around you this entire time but now that
you're focusing on it now that you're
looking for it it is everywhere
so whatever you look for it's gonna be
everywhere if you look for the negative
it'll be there but if you look for the
positive it will overwhelm you
and as Joseph Campbell said
people say what we're all seeking is a
meaning for life but I don't think
that's what we're really seeking I think
what we're seeking is the experience of
truly being alive and that's it that's
the juice figuring out that thing that
makes you come alive it isn't
keeping up with the Joneses it isn't how
much you're getting paid it isn't
anything other than for you something
very specific it would be different for
everyone but for you
find that thing that makes you come
alive focus on it think about it put
your time and attention there shift away
from seeing the pain in the Opera and
instead seeing the wonderment in it all
seeing the glory that is just
everything around you the opportunities
the fact that you're alive once you can
see that those basic things that you
take for granted that you can breathe in
through the nose and out through the
mouth all of that stuff once you start
seeing how miraculous it really is once
you start seeing how we're connected to
each other once you understand that the
name of the game isn't wealth it isn't
Fame it isn't ambition or success
it's neurochemistry
it's feeling a certain way
it's finding fulfillment in your life
once you realize that
you'll understand this is a game of
attention
and you entirely control what you focus
on
so choose very wisely my friends because
your life will literally become
the summation of the things that you
look at
right